when you think of creativity
when you think of innovation the last place
you may think of is baton rouge louisiana
we're an underdog agency in an underdog state
and we love to work with underdog brands
my name is jeremy bate i am
the co-founder here at 368
and the operating chief creative officer here
at our headquarters in baton rouge louisiana
it's being underestimated that allows
us to be so good because we come in with
a drive and an ambition that other teams may not
have and we work with brands who match that energy
to most people we're a marketing agency but
we don't act like most marketing agencies
we love making things that are ambitious
uncommon and creative and we love using
technology to make those things we shy away
from traditional advertising whenever we can
we try not to interrupt people with ads and things
that they don't really want to see and we try to
give people things that they can use and have fun
with and engage with and add value to their lives
prior to tim coming into our world we were aware
of no code tools but they weren't necessarily
exciting or attractive to us then enter tim we've
been working on this project for weeks on end
it was a really complex homepage
interaction and it was a struggle
here comes tim rolling into
work his first or second week
and invites us over to his desk and says hey i
just want to show y'all something i did last night
opens up a complete replica of this
homepage experience fully functional
on webflow and in fact it was better than the
working prototype that we had done or that we were
working on and i think everyone on the team at
that moment was we were all motivated to embrace
webflow as a tool and to re-imagine
no code as a component of our process
hi i'm timothy ricks i'm a senior design engineer
at 368 and an educator in the no code space
so no code to me is being able to build something
without having to actually write the code
it's opened up a new set of tools that no
one else had before except a very select
set of people that really allows us as
creatives to have full potential to build
whatever we want it reduces that barrier to
entry to where anyone can come up with an idea
and spend more time and energy on the end product
really making sure that it connects with people
that it sets the right tone the right emotions
because we're less worried about the technology
or the how to do it and we're more focused
on the best way to make something happen
we've got a history of growth so we've
grown almost 100 year-over-year as an agency
from 2017-28 all the way into 2020 we had unlocked
this recent no code capability and it was it was
helping us drive a new way of working a
new way of even bringing value to clients
to that point we had really been built on
the energy within the walls of this office
it was just like a buzzing frenetic place and that
was what drove us we'd bring clients in they
were feeding off of the energy and so yeah
early march 2020 and i remember being in
philadelphia and the news broke that everyone
needed to get home before they were going to
start grounding flights and locking things down
most of our clients called and said hey we're
just pausing everything right now we just don't
know what's happening we're gonna pause and for
us that was terrifying because that's revenue
that's cash flow that's future it was a few
weeks after that that we were working from home
i think the biggest challenge working remote for
me was just not seeing everyone from a day to day
i'd kind of grown accustomed to that energy of
being able to just look over my shoulder and get
some help on the design or get some feedback this
was a world where we gathered around desks and we
looked at a screen together and then we grabbed
watch suddenly we're thrust into this world where
you're on a zoom you end call and you're alone
again how do we collaborate how do we create
how do we have those water cooler moments in
a vacuum we hit a low as a team where it was
almost like we ran out of gas for a minute there
i don't know if any of us knew how we were going
to go into 2021 and so we were faced with this
change and made a quick decision to embrace it
like everything before it's
uncomfortable but it is what it is
and you can't focus on how it should of what it
could have been you have to focus on how it is
you start to switch from
this is an obstacle that we have to get through
to this is a reality that we have to live with
i think of it almost as there was a light at
the end of the tunnel and that light almost
went out and when you hit that point where you're
in the dark you have to create your own light
we got together as a team and decided
to create that life or at least to try
my mom's a nurse and she was in the hospital and
every day coming home and telling me how hard it
was and we just thought there has to be something
we could do to make a positive impact for our
healthcare workers who are really one of the ones
feeling the brunt of this whole situation and so
we came up with our clever viral positivity
idea which was a play on the negativity of
the pandemic and the the virus and we said
what if we made positivity just as contagious
we leveraged no code tools to create a platform
where people could go to this website and leave
messages of encouragement positivity for
frontline workers that were public anyone
could see so it would catch on we also added in a
donation component where people could donate money
actually the way we did it was we partnered with
brands so instead of just giving people money and
saying hey this will solve your problems
we took care of people we did car washes
spa days things like that so we relied pretty
heavily on no code tools for viral positivity
the main one being webflow we were able to use
other combinations of no code tools to really
make the experience so much more seamless like the
ability for users to like a message or the ability
to reshare it or cycle through random messages
so that way it really kept the experience fresh
the interesting part about this project is that
it wasn't a project it wasn't scheduled in the
project management software it was pure grit and
volunteer effort and it seemed like everyone was
involved you know everyone was hopping into these
zooms people were throwing design work in concepts
kenny was in the front end networking building
relationships making phone calls saying hey
can we partner with this car wash over here can
we partner with this food service over there
i think it was the one light
in the darkness at that moment
that everyone could grab onto so
it felt it was a source of energy
i didn't know what to expect with this project
when we did it to be totally honest it was
a little bit for us as much as it was for everyone
else we needed something to believe in we needed
to feel like we were helping so my expectations
were that we would at least be able to contribute
and i didn't know if anyone else would
would jump on fortunately they did
what we saw is patients started sharing stories
of how their nurses saved the day and then
people who had friends and family who worked in
healthcare started posting shout outs about them
and then we worked with hospitals to allow
the site to be shared on their screens
and cycle through encouraging messages throughout
the day to really enforce that encouragement
we were screenshotting people's comments and
posting them into slack saying did you see
this look at that wow we've got two pages we
got three pages we have four pages of comments
and then kenny would say look at
the donations that are rolling in
whenever i first heard that the
donations were approaching six figures
i couldn't believe it it's rare
that you get that kind of impact
and then uh going through and reading the comments
themselves i mean it was honestly emotional
i went through every single one and just like
i think i was in tears at one point just like
reading these things feeling the collective will
to move forward and the will to to persevere was
powerful for people facing obstacles facing change
um something we say here all the time it's from
a book you may have read is i'd say the obstacle
is the way in order for traction to happen there
has to be friction so that obstacle that change
that makes you uncomfortable that's the friction
you can grab onto to move forward so see it that
way use the friction i call it positive friction
so the obstacle is the way for this
project it wouldn't have happened
without no code tools because it needed to
happen quickly it happened outside of process
with limited resources and we needed a way
to get something interactive and engaging
to the world quickly as i look into the future
i see no code unlocking creativity for everyone
we're going to see awesome ideas come out
of places that we would least expect it
we can already see what is done for designers
being able to develop sites with very little
knowledge of code imagine when that becomes
accessible to everyone the type of things
that we're going to see no code and low code tools
ultimately allow us to reimagine the possibilities
on the internet and we're excited about what
the world will look like when we're done